post: Reverse proxy cache using AWS CloudFront (#67)
cloudx-labs/posts: posts/frangeris/02.reverse-proxy-cache-using-cloudfront.md

---
title: Reverse proxy cache using AWS CloudFront
published: false

> description: Detailed explanation on how to implement a reverse proxy cache to any API using AWS CloudFront

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to implement a reverse proxy cache to any API using AWS CloudFront step by step.
```

Author: I prefer to keep it, thanks btw

tags: "tutorial, aws, cache, cloudfront"
cover_image: ./assets/02.cover.png
---

## How to implement a reverse proxy cache to any API using AWS CloudFront

> A reverse proxy is the application that sits in front of back-end applications and forwards client (e.g. browser) requests to those applications. Reverse proxies help increase scalability, performance, resilience and security. The resources returned to the client appear as if they originated from the web server itself.

> AWS CloudFront is a CDN service for high performance and security convenience that offers a lot of advantages including a global edge network with a low latency and high throughput network connectivity (the one that matter to us).

Reviewer: Basic more info links for newbies
```suggestion
[AWS CloudFront](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/Introduction.html) is a [CDN service](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network) for high performance and security convenience that offers a lot of advantages including a global edge network with a low latency and high throughput network connectivity (the one that matter to us).
```

> One typical example where we could be needing a reverse proxy cache mechanism is when building HTTP APIs (Api Gateway V2) on AWS, this type of APIs are designed with minimal features so that they can be offered at lower price, lacking options as edge optimization, support for api keys, throttling and cache, [more detailed comparison here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-vs-rest.html); not having support for cache means processing time load will increase on backend side on origin servers, resulting in high latency on every request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One typical example where we could be needing a reverse proxy cache mechanism is when building HTTP APIs (API Gateway v2) on AWS, this type of APIs are designed with minimal features so that they can be offered at lower price, lacking options as edge optimization, support for api keys, throttling and cache, [more detailed comparison here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-vs-rest.html); not having support for cache means processing time load will increase on backend side on origin servers, resulting in high latency on every request.
```

For simplicity we will be using [Serverless Framework v3](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs) to handle AWS stack creation.

## Start by creating a HTTP API (_API Gateway v2_)

A very basic serverless api deployment should be working and usable to be able to configure CloudFormation distribution on top of it.

If you don't have previous experience with serverless, follow this [link](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/tutorial) on how to do it, just remember to select **"HTTP API"** as is the one that doesn't have cache support already built in.

Let's start by defining the type of api we need and some basic function to be able to exemplify:

```yaml
# serverless.yml

provider:
  name: aws
  # ...
  httpApi:
    name: "myapi"
    cors: true

functions:
  hello:
    handler: src/handler.hello
    events:
      - httpApi:
          path: /
          method: get
```

Regarding to what data we will be returning, lets run a process that sleep for 5 seconds to simulate some background process that "take too long" to complete using the [timer api](https://nodejs.org/api/timers.html#timers-promises-api), something like this:

> ![Basic lambda function](./assets/02.image.2.png)

Author: Added, thanks

> ![Basic hello lambda function triggered by GET request](./assets/02.image.2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Basic hello lambda function triggered by a GET request](./assets/02.image.2.png)
```

🎉 After a correct deployment, the api should be created successfully and ready to use.

> ![Serverless deployment result](./assets/02.image.1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Serverless deployment with a success result](./assets/02.image.1.png)
```

Now that the API is live and usable, we can make request by just calling the endpoint provided:

```bash

> curl --location --request GET 'https://644z4ooroe.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/'

Author: You have that information, probably not the reader

```

This will return the response we explicitly send back in our lambda, **BUT**, _after 5 seconds_:

> ![Postman request response](./assets/02.image.3.png)

Reviewer: for which endpoint?

            - DomainName:
                !Select [1, !Split ["//", !GetAtt HttpApi.ApiEndpoint]]
              # this value should be moved to a custom global var instead of duplicating the same string below
              Id: mydistributiondomainid
              CustomOriginConfig:
                OriginProtocolPolicy: https-only
          DefaultCacheBehavior:
            CachePolicyId: !Ref mycachepolicy
            DefaultTTL: 300
            TargetOriginId: mydistributiondomainid
            ViewerProtocolPolicy: https-only
            # List of allowed method acceded by cache, only GET for our case
            AllowedMethods:
              - GET
              - HEAD
          # all means all edge locations (recommended)
          PriceClass: PriceClass_All
```

Dont forget to run the re-deploy to update the AWS stack with the new config, if everything works, we should be able to make request to the cloudfront URL and it will cache the responses from the origin.

⚡️ Here is the final requests, the first is to our origin, the second to cloudfront cache.

> ![Postman final response](./assets/02.image.4.gif)

Reviewer: for what?

Author: Updated
